---
layout: post
title: "3 Methodology"
author: "Raffael Foidl, Lea Salome Brugger"
---

### Input Pipeline

The maDMPs we use as raw input data for our project are taken directly from the Zenodo
Community [Data Stewardship 2021 - DMPs](https://zenodo.org/communities/dast-2021/).

__TODO: Create Image illustrating the Process.__

1. Start with raw maDMPs from the Zenodo Community.
2. Ensure [schema](https://github.com/RDA-DMP-Common/RDA-DMP-Common-Standard/blob/master/examples/JSON/JSON-schema/1.1/maDMP-schema-1.1.json)
conformity, uniform formatting and indenting
3. Normalization: Establish uniform, alphabetical sorting of JSON properties.
4. Convert JSON/Turtle maDMPs to
   a [DCSO](https://github.com/RDA-DMP-Common/RDA-DMP-Common-Standard/tree/master/ontologies) instance in a JSON-LD
   serialization using the `dcsojon` tool.
5. Apply postprocessing to the JSON-LD maDMPs (again, establish uniform, alphabetical sorting of JSON-LD properties).

Regarding step 2, the following changes had to be made in order to achieve schema conformity:

* `4.json`
    * removed line breaks in JSON string literals
* `6.json`
    * some closing brackets were missing
    * object nesting hierarchy in the `distribution` field was incorrect (we could only make a guess as to the author's
      original intentions)
* `10.json`
    * objects instead of arrays with one element were used
    * sometimes, strings instead of numerical values (e.g. `int`) were used
    * two of the four data sets did not exhibit the required `dataset_id` field
    * on one occasion, a datetime format was used instead of a date
* `11.json`
    * correction regarding datetime format: `2021-04-12T25:10:16.8` -> `2021-04-12T25:10:16.8Z`
    * correction regarding incorrect time value: `2021-04-12T25:10:16.8Z` -> `2021-04-12T23:10:16.8Z` (a day does not
      have more than 24 hours)

Step 4 has been automatically executed via the [convert.sh](https://github.com/raffaelfoidl/maDMP-evaluation/blob/main/maDMPs/convert.sh) shell script. For more information
on `dcso-json`
tool invoked by this script, please refer to the [dcso-json overview](https://raffaelfoidl.github.io/maDMP-evaluation/0008.html).

### Processing of the Semantic maDMP Representation

After having brought the maDMPs into a semantically enriched JSON-LD format, we were ready to express requirements from
the evaluation rubric mentioned in the [Project Overview](#project-overview). We developed queries that project certain
subsets of the data into a customized view (`SELECT` queries) as well as ones that simply indicate whether some criteria
are satisfied (`ASK` queries).

A more in-depth, but still summarized, overview of the queries we created can be observed in [Queries](#queries). The
queries themselves are available in the [queries](https://github.com/raffaelfoidl/maDMP-evaluation/tree/main/queries) directory.

The subsection below illustrates how we imported the JSON-LD data into a locally installed GraphDB instance.

#### Import the JSON-LD Data into a Triple Store

During our experiment, we used a local [GraphDB](https://www.ontotext.com/products/graphdb/) instance as triple store
and SPARQL endpoint. Hence, the explanations in the following paragraphs are only applicable to GraphDB. Other triple
stores such as [Jena Fuseki](https://jena.apache.org/documentation/fuseki2/) are of course eligible as well. However,
there are no instructions for them in this repository.

__TODO: tutorial on how to import one JSON-LD file, with screenshots etc.__

### Report on Quality of Input maDMPs

Finally, after having created the queries, we applied them to the maDMPs that made up our input and which had previously
been imported into a GraphDB repository. The results of this assessment can be found
in [Assessment Report](#assessment-report).

